---
layout: page
title: "Publications"
permalink: /publications/
---

## Publications

### Journal Articles
1)	Zhang, Jie, Gemma L. Clayton, Stefan Nygaard Hansen, Anja Olsen, Deborah A. Lawlor, and Christina C. Dahm. "Maternal Pre-Pregnancy BMI, Offspring Adiposity in Late Childhood, and Age of Weaning: A Causal Mediation Analysis." Nutrients 15, no. 13 (2023): 2970. 
2)	Zhang, Jie, Gemma Clayton, Kim Overvad, Anja Olsen, Deborah A. Lawlor, and Christina C. Dahm. "Body mass index in parents and their adult offspring: a systematic review and meta-analysis." Obesity reviews, https://doi.org/10.1111/obr.13644
3)	Zhang, Jie, Olsen, A., Halkjær, J., Petersen, K. E., Tjønneland, A., Overvad, K., & Dahm, C. C. (2023). Self-reported and measured anthropometric variables in association with cardiometabolic markers: A Danish cohort study. Plos one, 18(7), e0279795. 
4)	Wu, Jingyi, Xiaojie Han, Di Sun, Jie Zhang, Jiong Li, Guoyou Qin, Wei Deng, Yongfu Yu, and Huilin Xu. "Age-specific association of stage of hypertension at diagnosis with cardiovascular and all-cause mortality among elderly patients with hypertension: a cohort study." BMC Cardiovascular Disorders 23, no. 1 (2023): 1-12. 
5)	Yahang, Liu, Huilin Xu, Jun Li, Yating Yang, Jie Zhang, Xiaoqin Liu, Jiong Li, Yongfu Yu, and Guoyou Qin. "Separate and joint effect of visit‐to‐visit glycemic variability and mean glucose level on all‐cause mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes: a population‐based cohort study." Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism. 2022 (12):2400-2410. doi: 10.1111/dom.14826. 
6)	Zhang, Jie, Dorthe Nyvang, Daniel B. Ibsen, Anja Olsen, Anne Tjønneland, Kim Overvad, and Christina C. Dahm. "Adherence to the Danish food-based dietary guidelines and risk of colorectal cancer: a cohort study." British Journal of Cancer 125, no. 12 (2021): 1726-1733. 
7)	Reynalda Cordova, Nathalie Kliemann, Inge Huybrechts, Fernanda Rauber, Eszter P.Vamo, Renata Bertazzi Levy, Karl-Heinz Wagner, Vivian Viallon, Corinn, CasagrandeaGenevièveNicolasaChristina C.Dahm, Jie Zhang, Jytte Halkjær, Anne Tjønneland, Marie-Christine Boutron-Ruaultij, Francesca Romana Mancini, Nasser Laouali,  Verena Katzkek, Heinz Freisling. "Consumption of ultra-processed foods associated with weight gain and obesity in adults: A multi-national cohort study." Clinical Nutrition 40, no. 9 (2021): 5079-5088. 
8)	Sofia Christakoudi, Konstantinos K. Tsilidis, David C. Muller, Heinz Freisling, Elisabete Weiderpass, Kim Overvad, Stefan Söderberg, Christel Häggström, Tobias Pischon, Christina C. Dahm, Jie Zhang, Anne Tjønneland, Jytte Halkjær, Conor MacDonald, Marie-Christine Boutron-Ruault, Francesca Romana Mancini, Tilman Kühn, Rudolf Kaaks, Matthias B. Schulze, Antonia Trichopoulou, Anna Karakatsani, Eleni Peppa, Giovanna Masala, Valeria Pala, Salvatore Panico, Rosario Tumino, Carlotta Sacerdote, J. Ramón Quirós, Antonio Agudo, Maria-Jose Sánchez, Lluís Cirera, Aurelio Barricarte-Gurrea, Pilar Amiano, Ensieh Memarian, Emily Sonestedt, Bas Bueno-de-Mesquita, Anne M. May, Kay-Tee Khaw, Nicholas J. Wareham, Tammy Y. N. Tong, Inge Huybrechts, Hwayoung Noh, Elom K. Aglago, Merete Ellingjord-Dale, Heather A. Ward, Dagfinn Aune & Elio Riboli. "A Body Shape Index (ABSI) achieves better mortality risk stratification than alternative indices of abdominal obesity: results from a large European cohort." Scientific reports, (2020)10(1), 1-15. 
9)	Nie, Shuang, Dawei Tian, Yanan Huang, Tianyu Zheng, Jie Zhang, Peng Ding, Bohan Zhang, Hui Shen, and Fengfeng Mo. "Research on Screening Methods for People Susceptible to Motion Sickness and Fatigue After Long Voyage." In International Conference on Man-Machine-Environment System Engineering, pp. 166-170. Springer, Singapore, 2021. (conference paper)
10)	Wang, Fengmei, Jirong Yu, Lei Zhang, Yan Zhang, Jie Zhang, Bicheng Liu, and Xiaowei Yang. "Clinical relevance of glomerular IgM deposition in patients with lupus nephritis." BMC immunology 22, no. 1 (2021): 1-10. 
11)	Zhang, Rongqiang, Xiaoli Yang, Jing Wang, Lixin Han, Aimin Yang, Jie Zhang, Dandan Zhang, Baorong Li, Zhaofang Li, and Yongmin Xiong. "Identification of potential biomarkers for differential diagnosis between rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis via integrative genome wide gene expression profiling analysis." Molecular medicine reports 19, no. 1 (2019): 30-40. 
12)	Zhang, Jie, Chenchao Ma, Aimin Yang, Rongqiang Zhang, Jiannan Gong, and Fengfeng Mo. "Is preterm birth associated with asthma among children from birth to 17 years old?-A study based on 2011-2012 US National Survey of Children’s Health." Italian Journal of Pediatrics 44, no. 1 (2018): 151. 
13)	Zheng, Tongzhang, Jie Zhang, Kathryn Sommer, Bryan A. Bassig, Xichi Zhang, Jospeh Braun, Shuangqing Xu et al. "Effects of environmental exposures on fetal and childhood growth trajectories." Annals of global health 82, no. 1 (2016): 41-99. 
14)	Wang, Jing, Aimin Yang, Jie Zhang, Na Sun, Xiangwen Li, Xinghui Li, Qiling Liu et al. "Genetic polymorphism in the asporin gene is not a key risk factor for osteoarthritis: Evidence based on an updated cumulative meta-analysis." Experimental and therapeutic medicine 15, no. 4 (2018): 3952-3966. 
15)	Atkinson, Thomas M., Carolyn E. Schwartz, Leah Goldstein, Iliana Garcia, Daniel F. Storfer, Yuelin Li, Jie Zhang, Bernard H. Bochner, and Bruce D. Rapkin. "Perceptions of Response Burden Associated with Completion of Patient-Reported Outcome Assessments in Oncology." Value in Health (2018). 
16)	Schwartz, Carolyn E., Jie Zhang, Bruce D. Rapkin, and Joel A. Finkelstein. "Reconsidering the minimally important difference: evidence of instability over time and across groups." The Spine Journal 19, no. 4 (2019): 726-734. 
17)	Schwartz, Carolyn E., Jie Zhang, Wesley Michael, David T. Eton, and Bruce D. Rapkin. "Reserve-building activities attenuate treatment burden in chronic illness: The mediating role of appraisal and social support." Health psychology open 5, no. 1 (2018): 2055102918773440. 
18)	Fraser, Jenifer Goldman, Carmen Rosa Noroña, Jessica Dym Bartlett, Jie Zhang, Joseph Spinazzola, Jessica L. Griffin, Crystaltina Montagna, Marybeth Todd, Ruth Bodian, and Beth Barto. "Screening for Trauma Symptoms in Child Welfare-Involved Young Children: Findings from a Statewide Trauma-Informed Care Initiative." Journal of Child & Adolescent Trauma (2018): 1-11. 
19)	Schwartz, Carolyn E., Victoria E. Powell, Jun Su, Jie Zhang, and Adi Eldar-Lissai. "The impact of extended half-life versus conventional factor product on hemophilia caregiver burden." Quality of Life Research 27, no. 5 (2018): 1335-1345. 
20)	Gao, Lijie, Yunqi Wang, Yi Li, Ya Dong, Aimin Yang, Jie Zhang, Fengying Li, and Rongqiang Zhang. "Genome‐wide expression profiling analysis to identify key genes in the anti‐HIV mechanism of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells." Journal of medical virology 90, no. 7 (2018): 1199-1209. 
21)	Schwartz, Carolyn E., Wesley Michael, Jie Zhang, Bruce D. Rapkin, and Mirjam AG Sprangers. "Assessing reserve-building pursuits and person characteristics: Psychometric validation of the reserve-building measure." Quality of Life Research (2017): 1-14. 
22)	Rapkin, Bruce D., Iliana Garcia, Wesley Michael, Jie Zhang, and Carolyn E. Schwartz. "Development of a practical outcome measure to account for individual differences in quality-of-life appraisal: the Brief Appraisal Inventory." Quality of Life Research (2017): 1-11. 
23)	Rapkin, Bruce D., Iliana Garcia, Wesley Michael, Jie Zhang, and Carolyn E. Schwartz. "Distinguishing appraisal and personality influences on quality of life in chronic illness: Introducing the Quality-of-Life Appraisal Profile version 2." Quality of Life Research 26, no. 10 (2017): 2815-2829. 
24)	Schwartz, Carolyn, Jie Zhang, Wesley Michael, and Bruce Rapkin. "Unpacking the socioeconomic status and resilience connection: reserve-building activities as mediators." Quality of Life Research, vol. 27, pp. S87-S87. 
25)	Zhang, Jie, Jiren Liang, Hongyan Zhu, Cuizhen Li, and Qing Wu. "PFOS and PCB 153 have direct adverse effects on neonatal testis modeled using a coculture of primary gonocyte and sertoli cells." Environmental toxicology 28, no. 6 (2013): 322-331. 
26)	Zhang, Jie, Qing Wu. PCB153-induced apoptosis in germ cell and sertoli cell of neonatal male rat in vivo and in vitro. JEOM 28, no.6 (2011): 342-346. 
27)	Xiao, Wusheng, Jie Zhang, Jiren Liang, Hongyan Zhu, Zhijun Zhou, and Qing Wu. "Adverse effects of neonatal exposure to 3, 3′, 4, 4′, 5, 5′‐hexachlorobiphenyl on hormone levels and testicular function in male Sprague–Dawley rats." Environmental toxicology 26, no. 6 (2011): 657-668. 
28)	Zhu, Hongyan, Keyong Li, Jiren Liang, Jie Zhang, and Qing Wu. "Changes in the levels of DNA methylation in testis and liver of SD rats neonatally exposed to 5‐aza‐2′‐deoxycytidine and cadmium." Journal of Applied Toxicology 31, no. 5 (2011): 484-495. 
29)	Zhang, Jie, Qing Wu. Hazards of Confined Space and Its Control Measures. Occup and Health 26, no.2 (2010): 209-210. 
30)	Xiao, Wusheng, Ke yong Li, Jie Zhang, Hongyang Zhu, Jiren Liang, Xiuli Chang, Zhijun Zhou, Qing Wu. Toxic Effect of Neonatal Exposure to PCB153 on Spermatogenesis in SD Rats. Zhong Hua Lao Dong Wei Sheng Zhi Ye Bing Za Zhi 28, no.7 (2010): 512-516. Impact factor:
31)	Li Keyong, Jie Zhang et al. Effects of 5-Aza-2-deoxycytidine on Spermatogenesis of Rats. Journal of Environmental & Occupational Medicine 26, no.2 (2009): 136-139. Lai Chunmi, Jie Zhang, Qing Wu, Keyong Li, Zhijun Zhou, Xiuli Chang. Morphological Change Induced By Cadmium In Primary Rat Gono-cyte Cell-Sertoli Cocultures in Vitro, Journal of Environmental &Occupational Medicine 27, no.5 (2010): 280-283. 
